14.04.2023, 10:12:08 Uhr

Modulbeschreibung #70113 / 10

Seite 1 von 2

Business Research Methods
Module title:

Credits:

Responsible person:

Business Research Methods

6

Kratzer, Jan

Office:

Contact person:

H 76

Kratzer, Jan

Website:

Display language:

E-mail address:

http://www.entrepreneurship.tu-berlin.de

Englisch

jan.kratzer@tu-berlin.de

Learning Outcomes
The primary aim of this course is to introduce students to qualitative research methods used most frequently by business scholars,
particularly within the domains of innovation and entrepreneurship studies. Knowledge of these methodological approaches is critical to the
comprehension of academic publications, the evaluation of empirical studies and the design and implementation of own research projects.
The specific learning objectives of this course are as follows. At the end of the semester, students who have successfully participated in this
course should be able to:
1. Explain fundamental research philosophies and approaches pursued by business scholars
2. Identify methodological approaches suitable to investigate different types of qualitative research questions
3. Describe and understand the main features and procedures of different quantitative methods
4. Critically evaluate the quality of the methodological approaches presented in published studies

Content
- Fundamental research approaches and philosophies
- Approaches to literature searches and literature reviews
- The use of theory, hypotheses and variables in business research
- Research designs, sampling approaches and ethical issues
- Evaluation criteria in quantitative and qualitative research
- Quantitative methods (e.g. regression, HLM)

Module Components
Course Name
Business Research Methods

Type
IV

Number

Cycle
WiSe/SoSe

SWS
4

Workload and Credit Points
Business Research Methods (Integrierte Veranstaltung)
Attendance
Pre/post-processing

Multiplier
15.0
15.0

Hours
4.0h
4.0h

Total
60.0h
60.0h
120.0h

Course-independent workload
Exam and assignment preparation

Multiplier
1.0

Hours
60.0h

Total
60.0h
60.0h

The Workload of the module sums up to 180.0 Hours. Therefore the module contains 6 Credits.

Description of Teaching and Learning Methods
The learning and assessment strategy pursued in this course is designed to facilitate and ascertain the students’ attainment of the
previously listed course objectives. The course is an integrated module, i.e. lectures and seminars are merged and must be attended
together in the same semester. The course consists of lectures and a variety of interactive approaches, including discussions of the
assigned readings, brainstorming, practical exercises and small group exercises. In the sessions, journal article excerpts, tables, statistics,
coding results etc. will be used to provide illustrative examples of different methods and approaches.

Requirements for participation and examination
Desirable prerequisites for participation in the courses:
Basic knowledge in qualitative research.
Mandatory requirements for the module test application:

14.04.2023, 10:12:08 Uhr

Modulbeschreibung #70113 / 10

Seite 2 von 2

keine Angabe

Module completion
Grading:
graded

Type of exam:
Schriftliche Prüfung

Language:
English

Duration/Extent:
120 minutes

Duration of the Module
The following number of semesters is estimated for taking and completing the module:
1 Semester
This module may be commenced in the following semesters:
Winter- und Sommersemester

Maximum Number of Participants
The maximum capacity of students is 25

Registration Procedures
The participants are asked to enroll in ISIS.

Recommended reading, Lecture notes
Lecture notes:
unavailable

Assigned Degree Programs
This module is not used in any degree program.

Miscellaneous
No information

Electronical lecture notes :
unavailable

